And we can use AI as we were just talking to make us radically more efficient at communicating
with one another because communication can be radically better and alignment can be radically
better and disambiguation can be radically better. People say words other people hear
something else or they project something else onto it. Something needs to help us communicate
with one another. And AI is going to do that. Mind indexing plus AI does just that.
Welcome to the Cave Minds podcast. Welcome to the Cave Minds podcast here. We are we got an
exciting guest today, Dimitri Shapiro. And he is the co-founder CEO of UAI. And he's got a pretty
extensive background. And I'm excited to kind of share that through with everybody. So Dimitri
aside from being the co-founder CEO of UAI and Koji, another company, he's also the founder
CEO of Go Meta Inc. based in San Diego. And Dimitri, feel free to jump in at any point if I'm not
not reading this right. But before this, he created the video sharing site Veo, which I've
everyone has used back in 2005. And then he served as a CTO at MySpace, which is one of the most
epic companies that everyone used back in the day. And then before moving on to Google,
where he took up a role of Group Product Manager. And then after that, Dimitri left Google to
found Go Meta. And then he has a bachelor's in electrical engineering from the Georgia
Institute of Technology. Is that is that pretty good, Dimitri? I think it hits a bunch of points.
I'm not sure if that it's in the right order. But that's all right. It's complicated. Yeah. So
the way I describe myself these days is I'm an old nerd. I started writing code in 1984 when I was
in high school. I studied electrical engineering and got a degree, but I've never done a day of it.
I've always done software. I most recently before finding Go Meta, which is the company that owns
Koji and owns UAI. So these are two platforms that Go Meta Inc. the holding company owns.
And I'm CEO of Go Meta Inc. Therefore, you know, CEO of these two platforms Koji and UAI.
Prior to that, I was at Google for four years on the main campus for the first three years. I ran
three machine learning teams, a product for three machine learning teams that were crunching a bunch
of implicit signals that Google had. Prior to that, I was CTO of Myspace. And then prior to that,
I founded two other venture-backed companies. One was a major competitor to YouTube called Vio
Networks, which is the one you mentioned. And then I also built a venture-backed cybersecurity
company, enterprise software cybersecurity company called Aconics Systems, raised 34 million for
that, raised 70 million for Vio. And then before both of those for five years from 95 to 99,
I built the web team at Fujitsu, which is, you know, giant Japanese company. And so,
as I said, I'm just an old nerd. You've been around, definitely. I mean, that's a lot of
experience there. And then I think, like, they read the story, like, I think total,
roughly, I think you've raised over 140 million venture capital from various companies.
Okay. So let's jump into it. Because then, you know, our main topic here is like, we at Cavemines,
we've got thousands of founders from networks like EO, YPO, Vistage, and a lot of startup grind.
It's a wide commonator people. And then I think our main thing is that we want to bring on AI
leaders. And that's why we have you here today. It's like people that have done it, been there,
and are still doing it today, and just like building stuff within AI, even beyond that,
like real AI, and then sharing the practical applications and like what they need to consider,
and just shedding more light, because I've been having conversations with a lot of these founders
that have built businesses, but in like outside of AI, and then if they're non-technical, they're
all overwhelmed, like they don't know what's happening. They see all these tools, you know,
they're using chat GPD, they're prompting, but they really don't know what they don't know.
And, you know, they kind of stick to the lane. So and I think like that's one of the things when
I was checking on you AI was like, wow, like you've simplified the ability to allow people,
developers or even founders to go on and build an app within AI that they can actually start,
like then releasing it and launching it. It's almost like you're creating like the AI app marketplace,
essentially, especially, yeah, exactly there, and Mind Studio, especially to allow them to build in
with it. And everything I like about UAI for all of you listeners, like, check it out, go on there,
because you can go on there and you can actually see what is what is currently available, and it's
all laid out in a very simple way. So there's no complex jargon or like text and stuff for you to
like complicate and overwhelm me like other AI things. It's like really simple and easy to
understand, which is not easy to do, especially to distill that information.
Always making it a little bit crisper and tighter and constantly working on messaging,
because these are complex things to describe to people. This is new to
everyone. You know, I mean, I've been working with machine learning since 2006, when we started
using it at VO, again, it's a YouTube competitor, we actually had recommendations, video recommendations
before YouTube had them. My chief scientist at that time was Dr. Ted Dunning, who's a sort of
world-renowned expert in collaborative filtering, which is a sort of a form of machine learning,
not exactly machine learning, but used for similar things, you know, prior generations
version of machine learning. So anyway, so yeah, I appreciate the compliment and I sympathize with
founders who are trying to build companies in this environment. Again, this is my third
venture-backed company. I've now been doing this one for seven years, the other two or five years
each. So there you go, 17 years of this. And I think this is the most interesting time, meaning
has many variables that must be considered that didn't exist in sort of my prior experience.
Things used to feel relatively stable. I mean, you kind of knew what the floor was that you were
building on, what the ground was what you were building on. Now the ground is sort of moving
quite a bit. And everybody's struggling with it from founders to venture capitalists who also
sort of don't know how to invest in this kind of an environment, because things that they're
doing due diligence on this week, we're going to get disrupted later on this week.
It's moving so fast.
And then you start doing due diligence on that, and that gets disrupted. And you do that a few
times. And all of a sudden they're like, well, it seems everything's about to get disrupted
over and over again. How can we invest? And so I have a lot of friends that are venture
capitalists that are sort of struggling, trying to figure out how do I do my job
and in this kind of environment. So it's a difficult environment for everyone.
But I believe, I think, certainly, that this is the best environment for new entrepreneurs
to jump in and build companies. What AI, specifically generative AI, has brought to the
table is the ability to build products much faster, like orders of magnitude faster,
and with a lot less technical capabilities required from a human resource standpoint.
You've seen large language models writing code. You've seen large language models responding
to prompts that if those responses would have been somehow written in something other than
a large language model, some kind of a heuristic approach, that would have been a lot of software
development and a lot of data crunching to be able to give these kinds of responses.
They come in a sense for free instantaneously. So those dynamics have changed dramatically of how
quickly one can bring a new product to market. And we're sort of in the thick of things with
UAI Mines Studio, to your point, which is someone can show up with an idea. And then in less than
an hour, launch a product that leverages all of the power of chat GPT and Anthropics Clawed,
we're Model Agnostic, so we support today GPT 33540, and also Clawed 1 and 2, so we'll support
all the other models as well. And so you can sort of leverage the power of all of those in less than
an hour, build a new service that you can launch on the internet, including monetization, that you
ask people to give it a free tier and ask people to pay a subscription fee for it.
And we now have over a thousand of these services that have been launched. This is the last month
and a half since we announced Mines Studio. And I think a lot of them are like really profound,
like, you know, people are building an AI medic. So basically like a physician that you can chat
with and it'll diagnose your symptoms. There's also an AI vet. So if your pet is having symptoms,
you can diagnose it. There's gardening assistance. If you want to plant tomatoes in San Diego where
I live, this gardening assistant knows where you live and will tell you the exact time to plant
tomatoes because if you're living in Northern California, this is the wrong time. You've got
a different time. You're in a different zone, right? Or a parenting co-pilot. I have five kids.
You could try to read all the books in the world. I don't have time to read any books.
But I have on my phone a parenting assistant that's read every book. That's read every study.
Because behind the scenes, it's just GPT-4. And it simply asks me what's happening.
And it knows about my kids because I've already trained it. And that took two minutes less
to train it. And so I can say, Una is crying because Diego won't go to sleep. And this thing
knows that Diego is older and Una is younger and can tell me exactly what to say to Una,
exactly what to say to Diego, how to frame any of it. And there's over a thousand more of those.
Wow, that's interesting. Okay, that's super helpful because then I just realized I was playing
around with it. And then I think that, yeah, like parenting is one use case and there's thousands
of use cases there. But I think that like, if I can pop in and use it, because the difference that
using GPT-4, you got to like heavily prompt and you got to do a new chat every time. But this is
fully trained in that specific use case and it retains everything. And I think there's no limits
as far as I know. I haven't reached any limits yet using it in terms of like, prompting. Like,
it's like, I think, correct me. Other than context windows and standard things that are limits of
modern LLMs, there are no limits. Because again, behind the scenes, think of us as like an abstraction
layer, like the application abstraction layer, two large language models. Basically, we believe,
which is what you're pointing at, that it doesn't make sense for consumers, for regular people,
to go directly to chat GPT and start typing. You know, you are a blog writing assistant
that has 40 years of experience and like all these things people write, please,
I will give you examples, backspace, backspace. This doesn't make any sense. We believe AI should
work the same way as mobile apps work, meaning there's an app for that. You want to write a
blog post, you push the right blog post button, you want help with parenting, you push the parenting
co-pilot button. And so prompt engineers, people who like, who are nerds like us, who want to go
and craft those prompts and experiment and tune them up in Nuancem, those people should do the work
to create that and package it using Mind Studio, package those prompts as consumer accessible
AIs. And so we're basically just a prompt package. But it's more than prompt. It's prompt and system
message and preamble and various parameters of, you know, large language models, temperature and
dealing with context windows and overflows and summarizations. Like a lot of things there that
we allow you as a prompt engineer to tune so that the consumer can simply answer the question,
what do you want to write the blog post about and now paste a sample of your writing style.
They only need to do that once, paste a sample of their writing style. From then on, they've
trained their own personalized blog post writer. And from then on, all they have to do is say,
I'm going to write a blog post of how, you know, AI is going to disrupt medicine. And it says,
who's the audience? And you might say physicians who are concerned about AI displacing them, great,
this thing is going to write a blog post in your writing style towards physicians that are concerned.
How many words would a consumer have to write in order to set up ChatGPT to be able to do that?
I think that's really cool because then my mind is kind of racing out because I think that I don't
know if maybe this is already released. Maybe it's not correct me if I'm wrong, but like
what if like, let's say the top five to 10 parent blogging apps or any of the categories there.
And then they're like, okay, instead of us building this whole conversation of Chatbot using
ABCD app, I want to just integrate the parenting app on UAI into our website. And then they pay,
like they don't pay the consumer rate, but they pay like a business. Is that already available?
Or is that something that's still in the works? Yeah, you can take, if you have content of your own,
let's say you're a parenting blogger and you've got a bunch of your blog posts and so,
in a sense, you can, your, your mental models are digitized. You've written a content. There it is.
You can take MindStudio, our product, and you can take that content and integrate it
into a URL that is a Chatbot and embed that on your blog or post it as a Instagram story. It's
just a link. Share it anywhere on social media, post it to Twitter, I guess X. And, and yeah,
so it's like really easy to do. And then you want to charge for it. Oh, wait, so the businesses
where they don't pay for, they pay for the usage of it, meaning that like if they have a thousand
visitors visiting the site and then they all 1000 use the app through their business website
or through their blog. No, no, the way it's set up is that you as prompt engineer can show up,
create a free account, start, you know, say, create new AI, we give you a bunch of templates you can
use or you can use blank and make that AI again, typically takes a few minutes to an hour, maybe
depends on like how much you want to geek out to really tune it up and make it awesome. But
not huge amounts of time, including integrating your own data and all of that. And then when you
publish it, that asks you to fill out some information. What do you want to call it? You
know, give it an icon, give it like a sharing image. And then there's a section says, do you want to
make it free to consumers to use? Or do you want to charge a subscription fee? You want to charge
a subscription fee for me to use your AI as a consumer, I get a free tier, which typically,
you know, I think 15 messages. And then it prompts me to give you money, depending on how
much you've said you want to charge. Some people are charging dollars, some people are charging
50 bucks a month. Again, we just launched payments the late last week before last, so like 10 days
ago. And there are already people who have subscribers and making money, you know, so it's
in the teens, not even 100, but still like the thing works. And people are starting to generate
recurring revenue monthly subscribers for their hard work of doing prompt engineering, you know,
figuring out what prompts work the right way and tuning all the other parameters and setting it
out. This use cases them every blog, every any business really e-commerce, the world I come
from like can definitely utilize building a specific app on it, putting it on as an embed
somewhere or even on a page and being like, hey, like get like a customer AI chat bot with our
thing. Or you can add them to home screens on mobile phones, right, because they're just web
apps, you can bookmark them and add them to home screens, they're there. Again, we see people sharing
them social media, that's an awesome channel to be able to do it because they'll render inside of
a Facebook feed. Because they, you know, Facebook thinks of them as like articles. And so you get
the open graph image in description and people can just tap on it or click on it and instantly get
access to this AI inside of Instagram or Facebook or Twitter or anywhere else. Oh, wow. Okay. Very
cool. And by the way, your point of like use cases, this is going to be just like the mobile app store,
meaning what kind of apps are in the mobile app stores, over 2 million apps in each app store,
apps for everything. There's an app for that. This is the same way. There should be an AI for that.
Today, the AI for that is chat GPT. I have to go there and tell chat GPT to behave as some AI for
that that we just discussed. But really what we should do is treat chat GPT as like raw material.
And we prompt engineers take all that raw material and make out of it specific things for specific
use cases that are much faster and easier for people to use consumers and SMBs and enterprises.
The scope is infinite. It is. I think like, and that like is current product as of today. And
like, what is what do you think is long term vision? What's the vision that you have like long
term that you can share like, you know, publicly, I'm sure there's a lot of things happening behind
the scenes. But yeah, I tend to be an open book. So I'll happily share. Yeah, so there's there's
near term work that we're doing. And then there's a longer term vision that we believe in
that we've already experimented with, meaning we put it into alpha and got data to show us that
we are right. But that this is viable. I'll explain both of these to you. So there's the near term
thing, which is mine studio. And so again, we believe that already these large language models
and image diffusion models and video models that are coming out, all of these generative models
are incredible, have countless literally countless use cases. But that the interface today that's
provided to consumers, this sort of chatbot interface cannot be the right interface. You
know, those of us that are old enough to remember DOS before there was Windows. DOS was generally
unusable. It wasn't until we got Windows that computing took off. And this is the same thing
we believe. And so while it's extraordinarily powerful, and it's amazing that people think that
they need to become prompt engineers to be able to sort of live in this new world of leveraging AI,
we don't believe that's true. We believe we prompt engineers, let's call ourselves people that are
motivated to do this work should show up right now, use mine studio, and basically build out
every use case possible. And you can do that now, you don't need any programming experience,
there's no code to this, you need to be able to use language while though, you need to be able
to be articulate, you have to explain, but that's what prompt writing is to be able to explain clearly
what you want the thing to do. And so that is a skill that you should have, but you can show up
now and do it. So that's the near term. And so we're making mine studio more powerful. So in it,
for example, is something called automations, where you can do these like multi step workflows,
you can collect input from a user, you know, during during their sessions, including, you know,
long term memory. So this thing remembers. So when they come back next week or next year,
this thing knows about them. So it's really, really powerful. Yeah, I don't have to constantly
start up from scratch and and type. Yeah, that's the biggest challenge. And so we're expanding
automation section, quite dramatically, we are making the sort of the output product itself
the AI are creating better interfaces for it. So it's sort of more usable by consumers and
and simpler to configure. We are adding analytics, deep analytics for AI creators to be able to
understand how people are using their AI so they can take it and make better AI's and make new AI's
and all of that. So there's a lot of work that's being done right now. You'll see a lot of releases
coming from us in the mind studio realm, again, focused on creators of AI's these,
let's call them prompt engineers for them, and for consumers that are engaging with those,
that's one piece. Another piece is we run a directory called UAI UAI dot AI. And there you
can go and find again, over 1000 of these AI's already. So think of it as like an app store
for AI's, you can go and browse categories or search and find interesting tools, AI tools you
can use and simply use them. And you know, the favorite section and you get again, as I said,
you can just add them to your home screen and there you go. So we're going to make that better.
Right now, discovery is dumb. There's some editorial that we do. There's nothing personalized.
There's nothing algorithmic. But there's already a lot of like really powerful interesting stuff.
And still invest some resources and discovery that's there. That's in the near term,
longer term. Oh, by the way, look, this is the when I say near term, like this is certainly
the next year, and probably next two years, as we're here. Because this opportunity is giant
for there to be an app store for AI's and for all prompt engineers of the world
to show up and sort of plant their flag and build all build out all of these services and
then benefit from that by making a living doing it rather. We think again, another way to put it
is if you want to start a new company, start it on you on on Mind Studio started on UAI Mind Studio.
Show up, build an AI, say I want to make money from it monetize it. And there you go, you just
launch the company. Later on today, you can watch another company being another product,
probably one company, but another product, one was a AI medic, another one's an AI vet.
Same thing sort of like you didn't have to do any work other than tell GPT that it's now a vet
versus it's now a human medic. That's interesting. Everything else is reusable. And also, as you're
talking about the short term time, short term side, one of the things I was thinking about was,
let's say there's like 100 bed apps over the period of time, how do you navigate that from
the consumer side? Business side doesn't affect it. But yeah, I mean, same way you do it in the
App Store. How many calendars are there? How many calendars are there in the App Store? How many
productivity apps are the countless of anything? And so you have ranking, right? And you have reviews,
and you have usage stats. And you basically, it's a ranking problem. Okay. And then there's
something that you'll build in like in the near term, we're doing that now. Yeah, that's one of
the things that we're doing that because we already have, as I said, over 1000 ai's last week,
there's over 100 created to accelerating. Yeah. And it makes sense because it's like easy to go on
and hop on a build. Is there, do you have something to think about when it comes to like audio, like
voice, the conversational within these apps? That would be interesting. Like instead of text,
it's like, you can speak to that app. I mean, in a sense, you can speak to that because built into
every desktop or mobile operating system now is, you know, voice to text capabilities, right? So
you got a little microphone next to messenger. Oh, okay. You can just speak to wherever there's
text input, we already have the way to take voice and trans transcode into text, basically.
Yeah. So we don't have to build that. I thought where you were going is there are absolutely
sound generation models that are starting to be available and meaningful. And also, you know,
sort of music generation and speech generation is part of that.
Where you can do sort of automated generation of audio. Today, we don't have any of those,
but we absolutely will, because as I mentioned, we're completely model agnostic. And so we will
support all major language models and diffusion models and video and audio and all of that.
I was just thinking like how I would probably use it is I would just put you AI as the actual thing
saved on my phone on my iPhone and just click on it and then use it as like, I can navigate and
search everything also saving like specific apps as well. Because then I would be able to just like
get access to everything in one go. And then I could find things. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I mean,
I think I saw you posting things about prompts, right? Like, so I see people saying, Hey, I've got
this like notion, you know, a sheet or I've got, I've got a spreadsheet that's got all these prompts.
And you can just go find the right prompt and copy and paste it into chat GPT and do that. We
think that's a silly way of doing things. If you've got a good prompt, turn it into an AI.
So I as a consumer can just pick it and bookmark it and just use it whenever I want.
Why should I have to go and open up a spreadsheet and copy and paste things
into chat GPT? How does that make sense? Yeah, it's just inefficient. And even right now,
like anytime we and the biggest thing is that it forgets. And if you delete it or you lose it,
yeah, it's just everything. But I do like that the fact that you're agnostic is in you integrate
all these other LLMs and API's and stuff. And then I don't have to manually go to five because
right now what we're doing is like, even as like us trying to utilize different platforms,
we're going to multiple different ones, try to link it together. And it just takes way more
time than it's necessary, which versus I can just use that one, go to you and then be able to
integrate. Hey, I want to use these anthropic or use like open AI or something like that.
Totally. Okay, yeah, interesting. We support those now.
Yeah, that makes sense. And then okay, so in the going back to long term, like do you in like
five to 10 years, I guess, like, where do you where do you kind of see that like some that
that's what's interesting? Yeah, so that is the long term piece that I want to tell you about. So
in May, so just a few months ago, we launched an alpha of UAI. This is before we had Mind Studio.
Mind Studio sort of came out of UAI. And our our vision there that we articulated to people and
said, please come and play with it if you want is this, that the right way to truly leverage
all the power of modern information technology, meaning that continues to accelerate, we have
Google, which by the way behind the scenes is all machine learning output that's not seen as an AI
platform, but it's absolutely an AI platform, or YouTube or any of these things are all behind
the scenes driven by machine learning. That's why they are so good. But but now we have these
new generative models, and all of that is just accelerating faster and faster and faster. And
so the thing that we pointed out is that we believe that humans are the bottleneck already
in being able to leverage all of the power of information technology, meaning I'll get you
like this, there are countless mobile apps I could be using right now that would make me better,
smarter, faster, happier, etc. I have no time to go find them, set them up, learn to use them and
use them. I am the bottleneck. The technology exists, but I'm the bottleneck. All of these new
large language models are really sort of exacerbating that and making it clear that human beings are
the bottleneck in being able to leverage all the power. This is why things like auto GPT are
exciting because you take the human out of the loop all of a sudden you have wire speed AI. Well,
now we're talking. It's not guided very well. So we believe that the real problem is the problem
of human to digital interface. And today it's gotten even worse because we said that the interface is
a chat box, which is one of the worst interfaces to it. We believe the right interface to that
is to take our minds, all of these beliefs, biases, mental constructs, desires, all those things in
our minds and digitize them, turn them into a data set. So we can then take that data set and grant
it to AI, which by the way, these are all neural networks. They don't want prompts. They want data
sets. Their core thing that they do is they take data sets and they process them and they find
structure in them, where structure may not have been seen by humans or was seen, but they're
much better at doing it. Statistically, meaningful features. That's what these things do. And so
if we digitize our minds somehow, and I'll explain to you how we did it that works, you can play with
it, then you get a data set of your mind and you can simply give that to AI and AI can sort of look
and say, uh-huh, I grok you. I understand how you're different from this person or different from the
majority or whatever. I understand what your strengths are. I understand what your weaknesses are. I
understand what your gaps of knowledge are. I understand what your desires are. And then I,
the AI, can take the lead and say, you don't need to prompt me anymore. Let me take the lead and make
proposals for you. I think you might like this. Do you like it? And you say, yes, please do that.
Thank you. I got you. What about this? I thought you might want to learn this. I've created a custom
learning material for you because I thought that you understood prompt engineering,
but it seemed you didn't understand this dimension of prompt engineering. And so I filled that in
for you. Here it is. Just that. Instead of giving you more things to read about prompt engineering.
And so anyway, so we believe that's the future of human beings being able to leverage all of the
accelerating power of information technology is to for us not to interface with this technology
directly, but for us to, in a sense, interface with this proxy, this mind indexing proxy.
And because our minds are constantly changing, this is something that we do from now on. And by
the way, what does it feel like? It feels like TikTok. It feels like a never ending feed of
proposals and interfaces that we present to human and say, how would you choose? Some are
open answer questions. Some are multiple choice questions. Some are high density grids that say,
tap all the things that seem yummy. How would you describe yummy to chat GPT in words if you
wanted to recommend food choices for you? That take a lot of words. It would be very crude.
But if I give you just a few screens of high density screens of images and say,
pick the things that seem yummy, I can build a vector that differentiates you from me or from
other people. You see? And so we announced this. We had over 5,000 people show up in our alpha
and go through a median number of prompts. We call them prompts that we presented to them
answered as 177. So 177 explicitly articulated data points. And by the way, the reason it was,
you know, on one hand, that's extraordinarily high. On the other hand, that's limited because we only
had a limited number of prompts in there. And so people ran out of things to answer. And we paused
it for a moment, well, moment, maybe for a little bit of time, because we realized from that that
that is going to work. Like we could really go in that and digitize people's minds. But for what?
What are they going to get for that in the near term? That's where Mind Studio comes in.
What they get for that is all of these AIs that are being built right now with Mind Studio can
leverage all of that data that's being collected by Mind Indexing. You can grant it. You can grant
any new AI you discover. It can ask you, can I use this set of data about you? And you can say yes.
And it's instantly trained, personalized to you.
You're essentially like, it's like a close thing to like digital, digitizing one's mind and also
like replicating them. You know, a lot of good points. I guess like, I can tell you philosophical
as well, like, what do you think are the philosophical implications of this, like the
digitization of one's mind and removing someone to fully, I guess, quote unquote,
build a fully AI-powered experience where the human isn't getting involved in each step and like
all that stuff that's currently the state of AI? Yeah, I think, I mean, it's a brave new world,
like it's profoundly transformative. First of all, obviously the speed of ability for a human
to communicate with machine becomes many orders of magnitude faster. So that itself is profound.
The ability and one of, I think one of the biggest problems humans have is we don't know what we
don't know. And this thing can figure out what we don't know and fill in the gaps for us. And so
education gets transformed radically. So the pace of education, you know, goes up dramatically.
And everyone gets basically personal content delivered to them. It also transforms the web.
It doesn't make sense anymore to create websites that are geared towards personas
or ideal customer profiles. There is no such thing. These are all crude caricatures. Any
person, any marketing team has ever built is a crude caricature of something that doesn't exist.
Each person is infinitely complex, individual. So this thing could actually sort of leverage that
data where a human shows up to an e-commerce site and says, here's me in data form. An e-commerce
site says, I grok you, here are the things that you would like from our catalog of things. Let
me explain them to you in the language you will understand how they will matter in your life
and why you should choose this over our competitors product. So everything becomes
ultra personalized content created on demand for each one of us based upon, again, our states of
being. That's the right way it should be. That's the way humans do it. Like if you have a human
salesperson, why is a human salesperson better than just a website? Because a human person can
have a conversation with the other human and understand them in a more nuanced way and then
paraphrase thing to them and leave them from where they are now to where we need them to be.
And that can only be done by understanding who is the customer in this case. And by the way,
of course, beyond that, you start to get into all kinds of other crazy things, which is when you
digitize, again, I've thought about this now for years and so I'll propose some things that to me
are quite obvious, but won't be obvious at first blush, which is, so I'm married. My wife and I
just celebrated our 10th wedding anniversary. We have five kids. I know her extraordinarily well.
But periodically, there are still things that come out in conversation. I'm like,
how did I not know this about you? I've had this with Fran, 54 years old. I've had this
with friends I've known for 30 years. I'm like, how is it possible that we'd never touched upon
that? Or I always assumed you were this or now you're this, right? Well, because I propose to
you and the listeners that we know a very thin veneer of one another.
Human communication is very shallow. We don't have time to go deep. It's uncomfortable to go deep.
Who takes the lead on making things deeper? It's hard to do that. But if we are all indexing
our own mind, we can show up at a situation and say, hey, do you want to compare mental models?
And then say yes and yes. And all of a sudden, instantly look at that data and realize all of
these amazing things that we have in common that we would have never discovered in 40 years of friendship.
But now we can see them. We can go deep. We can find misalignment where I thought you believed
this, but you actually don't. No wonder we've been miscommunicating or I've been trying to get
you to see things in some way. But you can't see them in that way because of this thing. I would
have never known that about you. How would I discover that? But because we're digitizing minds,
we can overlay and do that. We can also do that in teams, which is profound. I run companies.
Running companies is one of the hardest things, mostly in alignment and communication.
People say, we agree. We're going in the right direction. I say, I'm not sure that's true. Explain
it to me in your own words. And they explain it. I'm like, okay, we're aligned. And then all of a
sudden we somehow are moving in different directions. How? Well, because the vector
from which we were looking at it, it seemed like we were aligned because we're pointing at a point
in space, but we're pointing from different directions. This thing can find misalignment
and help us align. So we can work together. So anyway, so like those kinds of things become
quite profound and transformative to society. That was honestly like, I don't even know how to
describe it. But I think that what you just shared is like, mind blowing, because to me,
that changes relationships forever, in the sense that like, if I don't know how it would look like
functionally, like tactically, but if what you just described as a concept, if I can just press a
button, and then we know everything, and then if they're, and then we can just look at it or maybe
scroll through up there, this is like a caveman version of where we're at, but they scroll through
like, Oh, Julie or John, we have all these things in common. These are things that we don't want.
And it's the things that you didn't know, or you didn't know, or that would actually be,
I would love to use that. That would be a very near that we almost launched that.
We could in a sense launch it at any week, we're close to being able to launch that we now have
over, I think just under 10,000 people who've been digitizing minds, maybe it's now above 10,000,
but some are in that range. This is with UAI. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah. And so we actually, like
said, we started, we almost launched that comparison thing. And it's just a mobile interface or desktop
interface that says, you know, given these two people, they can both consent, because obviously
the information is private consent, and then say, great, okay, let me compare the two of you.
And then it comes out and it actually explains it to you and just plain English, like it even
does the parsing in the process. Oh, wow. You don't have to just like look at data. I mean,
you can look at the raw data too. But like, you can summarize it for you and it can help you grok,
you know, how to interact with other humans, like human communications about to change radically.
Yes. Because then it changes the way that we not just build a relationship, but it helps us build
deeper and more meaningful relationship. Because when we save the time of, because we have limited
time. And so like having hours and hours of conversation that we normally have now is meaningful,
but it's, it's also there's a level of AI where what you described as a thing that's being built.
Yeah, that's really exciting. Actually, I can see I can, I would definitely use that because I was
even thinking the other day, and this is just like a in a nutshell version, like we do so many
intro calls in business. And then everyone's like, Hey, can we hop on an intro call, intro call? And
then like in the lifetime of business, we probably do thousands of intro calls. What if there's a
way to literally apply what you just shared into the intro calls? And then, you know, and then we
get into kind of like the, Hey, this is the core thing that we can add value to each other in that
way. But we save the 30 minutes in one hour, not to say that it's not meaningful, but it's just
to focus on building and doing more creative work and whatnot. I think that would be like
really interesting as well. And you can instantly go deep. You can skip all the shallow stuff.
Again, doesn't mean you don't do shallow stuff. Shallow stuff is interesting, flirting is great.
But, but the real value happens in the depths. Yep. In personal relationships and business
relationships, the devil is in the details. So get to the details. Because the rest,
why should we waste our time talking it? It's much faster to index it, have the AI summarize it
and let you guys now move on to the depths. You're both good people. I AI think you should
work together. It looks like you're going to fit. Great. Let's get in the depths of it.
This is really interesting. What if, since we're riffing on it, like just what if you imagine
like that, but then you add in a audio replica version of the person and then that person would,
after the matching is done, the audio would be there. And then you, the person that want to
interact with them could do, could have a call with the audio version of it. So similar to,
I don't know if you've seen, you've probably seen air.ai where it's like an AI version of
the person having a conversation. And then let's say they, once they have the conversation,
then it goes into that real, real self. So it's like the AI version of you having a conversation
with a real person and then it becomes a real person. Yeah. So look, I think a lot, you know,
lots of people are doing lots of interesting things. My personal gut feel, take that with a
trillion pounds of salt. But my personal opinion is that at least for the near future, humans are
going to be generally allergic to speaking with your AI avatar instead of you. It's disrespectful.
It's like speaking to a, to an answering machine. And that doesn't feel right. But
since we can make our calls much shorter, we can be much more efficient is what we were just talking
about is we can skip all the fluff and instantly understand one another and have a short call
and build rapport and get questions answered. And I know that you human answered me rather than
like your, your avatar. The same thing with like all of these like writing things that will reply
to emails for you and all of that. As soon as that becomes mainstream, I think that's just going
to generally kill email. Because like, what am I talking? Who am I talking to? Not talking to a
human. Can I take that to the bank? Oh no, my AI was hallucinating. I didn't mean that. I didn't
say that AI said it. So anyway, I'm not bullish on those things. I think they're novelties.
Now they're amazing novelties, you know, and we've got things that can generate content like you.
So you can answer emails and do all that. That's great and sound like you. But is that good? I'm
not sure. I don't think so. That's a good point. I think the respect part is key. Like you touched
on that just that one word represents it's like, I think once you do the matching, then the human
interaction, you can't at least like based on what we're talking about, you can't scale that
without the human elements always going to be important at the very bottom to build those
relationships. Yeah, we can use AI as we were just talking to make us radically more efficient at
communicating with one another. And therefore we could interact with more humans. Or we could
or we can get much deeper with one human using our time. Because communication can be
radically better. And alignment can be radically better. And disambiguation can be radically
better. And all of that human communication is looking at it from this lens is extraordinarily
draconian. We're in the dark ages of human communication. By the way, this is why we have
the battles we have in culture wars and all of this other stuff that we see sort of all around
this right now. All of this outrage. It's a communication problem. People say words, other
people hear something else, or they project something else onto something needs to help us
communicate with one another. And AI is going to do that mind indexing plus AI does just that.
Okay, that's a quote right there. We're going to quote that part that you just went through. That's
exactly it. So next thing I would say would be, you know, some interesting questions I had was
like, you know, as a, what are your thoughts actually now that we're talking about it, like
what are your thoughts on the GPT wrapper stuff where like, you know, people are just basically
using the open AI stuff and then just building like, one single feature thing. And then they're
making like, I don't know, 2550k 100k off it versus building a long term sustainable AI business
like you AI and then actually like literally thinking about the product, building a team,
you know, the two, like what do you what do you thoughts on those like, is it you think it's like
either or like pros and cons, obviously, but like, what do you think is like,
just general thoughts around it, the people that are doing either or.
Yeah. So both of those work and both of those are needed. I like to build platforms. I like to
build things that other people use to build things. Yeah. I don't like to build products,
actually. Like if you said to me, build an e-commerce store and go run it to me, that's
very uninteresting. I'm not knocking at some people. It's extraordinarily interesting.
But to me, it's not, but build a platform that allows people to build many e-commerce stores.
That's interesting. And so that's, so my advice to entrepreneurs is work on things that interest
you. That's the most important parts. If you're interested at the layer of platform,
go build a platform company. If you're interested in AI as a solution for some kind of a
problem and you want to build something that wraps that leverages chat, GPT or Claude or whatever,
and then provides a real service to consumers, you should do that. I would say go do it on
on mine studio because that's the fastest, easiest way to do it. I don't know if faster
way to do it. You don't need to launch a, you don't need to go raise venture capital. That's
right. Bootstrap, build it and then like ship it because that speed at time is like of the essence.
Yeah. And again, I'm not kidding. You can do it this afternoon. Whenever you hear this,
you can do it that same day and launch it and promote it and start to make money that same day.
And then the next day build another one because again, there's countless use cases that need to
be enumerated and built out. So I think both of those approaches work just depends on what you're,
what you like doing. It's going to be interesting on these about the second order effects of you
creating the platform and then people going on and literally building agencies. I'm excited to see
that of like, Hey, we're going to build on you AI for the small businesses that don't know anything
about AI. And then they just like build it for them or even just any business. And then they'll
be charging like thousands of dollars. I'm sure it's going to happen. Someone's going to do it.
And it's going to be really good. I know who's going to do it first because we're about, they
reached out to us and there we go with them. So what you described is literally about to happen
where I can't give it away. Unfortunately here, but, but you'll see it and there'll be a
first of many I'm sure partnerships of other companies, big companies. This one's over 20 years
old has got over 2000 employees that are showing up and saying, Hey, we can leverage all of this
power we have with our customer base. And we just want to be able to very quickly,
you know, create a bunch of AI services that we can then sell to our existing clients
and new clients. And these are in businesses. So this is not a consumer thing. It's a
SMB primarily thing. And the platform just gets better and better. So it makes sense.
It's like a long-term partnership. Interesting. What do you think would be the, you know,
aside from you AI, what do you think could be the next let's quote unquote say like most impactful
AI business that no one is building because you've seen a lot. So what would you say would be
something that you're like, Oh, okay. I think the businesses is a big sort of question mark word
there. If we can take that out and forget the business part of it, because there's a bunch of
business dynamics that might prevent extraordinarily powerful things, transformative things to occur
and that could radically change the world. And by the way, then change how you would even build
businesses. Like what does it mean to build a business? If we were talking early in the podcast,
right? I said that venture capitalists are struggling with sort of the pace of disruption.
And I think that's only going to accelerate. And so how do you build a business? What is a
business? You certainly don't write a business plan. Do you have time to incorporate? No,
you don't. I mean, you should, but you do that later. The first thing you do is you throw a lot
of stuff at the wall and see what sticks. And once it sticks, that's when you build a business
around. And so like finding product market fit becomes something you do multiple times a day on
different things until you find it. And then you very quickly go do it. And by the way,
you'll probably get disrupted shortly thereafter, because other people can do that too.
Once they have the idea, they'll do that too. And that's going to be really hard to build
businesses in general, not kind of an environment. Yeah. So well, if we take that off the table,
then it becomes arguably even a more difficult question, because everywhere you look,
their AI is going to create transformative, like massively transformative change. Look at medicine,
will radically transform medicine, access to diagnosis, ability for personalized treatment
plans, discovery, research, one of the reasons that we got these mRNA vaccines so quickly
is because of our current computing capabilities to be able to run all these things, right? And we
do things proactively. So you're doing research while we sleep at wire speed, right? And that's,
by the way, only accelerating. And so whatever, that's medicine, you can pick anything else.
But I'll point you to one that we talked about earlier, which is the creator economy is about
to be destroyed, I believe, as an economy. Now this is going to be provocative. And because I
built a company in the creator economy space, it becomes even more provocative. And I'm not
trying to be provocative. I just want to point to something that we think is obvious, which is
humans are obviously creative beings. And so we will never stop creating for the sake of creating
and using our creations as a means of communicating with one another, self expression, etc. Check.
But making that into a business and monetizing it, when you make something into a business,
you start to deal with the cost of goods. How much time does it take me to produce a piece of
content versus how much money can I get from producing that content? As soon as you look at
that equation, it becomes very clear that there's no need, no possibility for humans to compete with
automated content creation. Personalized automated content creation. So we already see
automated YouTube channels, mostly the stuff that producing is kind of junk. Soon it won't be junk.
It'll be as compelling as anything produced by a human. But it'll be produced on demand for each of
us individually. And that's obviously going to be radically more compelling than anything else.
And so I think the only YouTubers in the sense that might get a pass for a little while are the
YouTubers where the content is about them, the human, not about anything else. Because that goes
back to that thing we were just talking about where I don't want to talk to your AI. I want to
talk to your AI. I want to talk to you. I don't want to see your AI generated, you know, vlog
videos. I want to see you. Okay, great. Then you're safe. But for everything else, I don't care if
it's you who created it or not. I care about the topic. And there that topic is going to be, again,
because it's personalized, it's going to be so much better than anything you could possibly
afford to produce. And that's going to be very, very disruptive. That's true. Because then it's
self-explanatory, like it's just personalized to me. I don't need to search for anything.
And that's the ultimate, yeah, personalization AI. Interesting. Okay.
Proactive AI. AI, we shouldn't be asking AI what to do generally. Again, this is the Dark Ages.
Another way of looking at it is try to explain some people like, if you met a genie, and the genie
said, I can, I'll answer any of your questions. What do you want to know? And some people say,
what's the meaning of life and all that? That's great. But I say that my question would be,
what question should I ask? What should I know that I don't know? What's the most important thing
to know? I don't know. So how can I ask the question? Only thing I can do is say, I trust that you
may know what I should be asking you, because you know the world. And I'm just little on me.
And I'm willing to tell you about myself. That's the mind digitization. I'll tell you what I know
and I don't know how I see the world. And you tell me what I should know to make my life better
and to make my children's lives better. That's the ultimate thing. And I think that reversal
of roles where the AI can take the lead is the big transformative thing. That's what takes us
again to wire speed. And those are those quantum leaps and capabilities, not our ability to type
faster. That's true. Yeah. And also like that AI can coach us can be like the life guide as well
once they learn everything about us, not just for the relationship aspect. Wow. Okay. I won't be
respectful of your time. So I know we've got a few minutes left. I'm just gonna rapid fire these
three because I think they'll be really interesting. Like if you were to lose everything tomorrow,
like what would you what would you rebuild aside from aside from UAI? You mean in business?
Could be business or could be everything where you're like, oh, sorry, for business. Let's say
for business. That's right. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, not not. Yeah, just business. Yeah,
let's get in business. Yeah. If I was to lose everything in business, what would I build?
Again, if I maintain sort of the same state of mind that I have now, and I looked at opportunities
where would opportunity be, I would instantly start launching AIs. Now again, some people would
look at this and say, okay, well, he's building a damn platform. He's just promoting it. He's
biased. And I respect that. But I'm telling you, like as much as I can strip that away,
that's what I would do because this is obviously the growth area. This is obviously green field.
I wouldn't go and build like mobile apps, almost 3 million in each app store, that thing is saturated.
I wouldn't go and try to do like drop shipping and affiliate programs and any of that stuff.
That doesn't make sense. If I wanted to build a business, I would go and leverage all of the
power of AI and I would build things for the world that the world needed. And then depends on
what I address, consumery things or SMB things or enterprise things or medical or whatever,
depends. I tend to like consumery things rather than, I mean, I built an enterprise
software company, Aconics, the cybersecurity company, raised 34 million for it, spent five
years of fidget. So I know enterprise. I don't much enjoy building enterprise products. So I
probably do consumery things. Very cool. And then what's the single, what would you say
with the single greatest lesson you've learned so far in life, if you were to pick one?
That I, like you, am an instance of the universe and that we are as connected to one another as
my fingers are connected on my hand, that this is not a finger that's different from this finger
and in competition with one another, struggling to get all the resources. So this finger has fewer
resources. If you do that, your hand dies and that we, all of us, including the animals and the
plants and all of us are instances of one thing you can call it God, you can call it nature,
you can call it universe. You don't have to call it anything, but that, that, by the way, that I
discovered in my first Burning Man in 2009. And I'm about to go to my 12th Burning Man. Oh, wow.
So I'm leaving tomorrow for my 12th Burning Man with all of my kids
and my family and my parents in law who now this is their seventh year at Burning Man. And so all
of that came from that. So I think that would, that's the most profound thing that I learned when
I was 40. And that changed my life. That also is the thing that made me want to have children,
you know, until my 40s. I didn't think I wanted children. I shouldn't populate the world and
any of that. But now I realize that it's a, the world is a wonderful place, not a place,
thing that keeps happening. And I'm part of it. And my job is to participate.
I love that. I love that. That could have been, could have been well put. And then obviously,
big lesson to go to Burning Man, especially if you've done it 17 times is it?
Sorry, 12. Oh, 12. Wow. Okay. So that's, okay. So I'm going to sign my own
register for it in the next one. I don't think I can go for tomorrow, but yeah, that's, that's
amazing. Well, okay, Demetri, this is honestly, it was more than I expected in terms of like mind
blowing, like insights and stuff. I learned a lot, really appreciate you. I think that like,
in the middle part where you talked about like the YouTube and then they released like the thing,
and then there was the deeper, profound lessons. So I'm definitely going to re-listen to this myself,
because I think that we covered a lot of things and we went like deeper. And I love that you've got
the personal like philosophical and like deeper level thinking. And I'm sure that's like, that's
how you always operate. But it's just like, it's just great to hear that. And then not just talk
about like the, the technical aspect, but getting more grounded as well. It's basically, I think,
I was thinking about the title of this episode, speaking to a brilliant mind. Like that's what
came to my mind. So something like that, speaking to a brilliant mind, but then going into more
deep depth of like UAI. And it obviously like will come with something interesting for the titles
and stuff. And there was a lot of great clips and content there for sure. Appreciate it. It was a
lot of fun. Yeah, I had a great time chatting. Thanks for wanting me to, to spend time with you.
It was a pleasure. Yeah, likewise. Any questions, thoughts or anything before we wrap up?
Yeah, excited to that we're connected. I'm excited that I you clearly understood what I said,
that's awesome. And now that you've understood it, I think what I've done is I've planted that
seed in your mind that you can now help me spread the word. Yes, this is what people should be doing.
Like this is the new I'm certain this is the you want to side hustle, this is the new side hustle,
you want to build a business. This is the place to build a business. There's no point trying to go
and raise venture capital and build this big company to build a business that doesn't make
any sense in this environment. We had to build a business to solve a problem, leverage the power
of AI to solve a problem and put a price on it. And then solve another problem tomorrow and another
problem the next day. When you solve a whole collection of problems, you get massively rich.
You've done great work to help the world be better. You've leveraged all the power of AI is those AI
get better, your AI gets better. Because behind the scenes, it's always using all of those models.
Yeah, you're never stagnant. You're never, you're never stuck. You don't have to upgrade anything.
Open the eyes can upgrade things. Anthropics can upgrade things. You know, Facebook's gonna
upgrade things. And as those things get upgraded, your AI continues to get better. I don't know of a
more clear entrepreneurial path. Exclamation point. There we go. Awesome. Thanks again, Dimitri.
Have a safe flight and enjoy the 12th Burning Man. Thanks. Yeah, so 16 hour drive. No flights.
Yeah, 16 hour drive and then another probably eight hours sitting at the gate to get in and then
you got to set everything up. It's not a vacation of any sorts. It's a it's a bit of a sort of going
to the moon and doing it. But I love it. I find it I find it powerful. Yeah. Amazing. Well,
thanks so much. Have a great weekend. Appreciate you. Take care. Thank you. Take care. Bye bye.
Bye. Hey, thanks for listening to today's episode of the cave minds podcast. I really appreciate
you for taking the time to listen to the AI insights, the golden nuggets, the value. And I
hope you got a lot of that from this conversation that we had. We're going to be interviewing a
lot more amazing AI founders, startups, experts bringing you these deeper insights so that you
can apply to your company and take it to the next level and adapt it for the age of AI. If you like
this episode, please make sure to subscribe, download this episode, tell all your founder,
colleagues and friends about it. We do this all for free. You're getting every single thing with
the deep dives, the podcast, one of our shops all in an effort to adapt our businesses and help us
grow together as part of the community. Last thing I like to ask, please leave a review if you can,
something that's one, two sentences. It helps us rank higher so that more people can find out
about us. And then it also means a lot when you're able to take about five, 10 seconds to leave a
nice two, three sentence review for us as well. I look forward to seeing you in the next podcast
episode and where we're going to keep making things even better, more valuable for you. Thanks
again. And I'll see you in the next one. Thank you for listening to today's episode. Make sure you
subscribe to the Cave Minds podcast. The only podcast founders and CEOs need to integrate and
leverage AI into their businesses. Every week we sift through the buzz and serve you crystal
clear insights that you could plug into your business today. Visit our website caveminds.com
for show details and many more products. This show is copyrighted by Cave Minds.
Written admission must be granted before syndication or rebroadcasting.